---
layout: post
title:  "Why"
date: 2022-11-28 16:40:00:00 -0700
tags: [writing]
---

<div style="text-align: right">
<p>If your actions inspire others to dream more, learn more,<br> do more and become more, you are a leader.</p>
<p>-John Quincy Adams</p>
</div>

One of the big aha moments in my life was when I discovered [Start with Why](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=u4ZoJKF_VuA). In this brilliant TED Talk, Simon Synek explains how all great leaders start communicating from the Why. This seemignly simple principle has guided me through my career and, during my day to day job as and Engineering Manager, I often go back to this principle of asking Why and I often uncover unconventional insights.

So, it only seemed fitting that, when I first started toying with the idea of restarting a personal site, I wanted to ask the question: Why?

## Sharing my ideas and beliefs

A good summary is this article by [Daniel Miessler](https://danielmiessler.com/blog/why-everyone-needs-a-blog/).

> People used to be defined by where they work, and now they’re defined by their knowledge, capabilities, and opinions.

> Try to capture your beliefs, and why you believe them. Try to capture your interests. Write yourself down.

I want to put my ideas out there. I know the internet is a place full of trolls but I still believe in a having a civilized debate and mostly I believe in people telling me why I'm wrong or pointing me to resources where I can read and learn more and hopefully refine my position and become better educated.

I have things to say and I want to confront the idea of how right I am. You are always right in your head, until you confront an audience. I want to put my ideas out in the world and see if there is any traction. See if my ideas resonate with people and engage in conversation.

I think I have things to say that deserve to be said. Why? Because ideas move people and I believe we need to move in the right direction as a world It is hard to lead if you don’t move people. might help people,

Everything makes sense in your head until you confront an audience.

## Practice writing and thinking as opposed to consuming

Writing is thinking [link](link) and I want to improve my ability to communicate and think clearly. I read this article and I say things <https://tjcx.me/posts/consumption-distraction/>

## Prove to myself I can launch something that some people will give a shit about

I also want to prove to myself that I can actually finish a side project and launch it. Independently of my work. Yes it is small, but it is a [tiny habit](link) in the right direction.

## Finding my crowd

I like building things and to build a team of like minded people you need to write.

Why am I writing? I think I have things to say that deserve to be said. Why? Because ideas move people and I believe we need to move in the right direction as a world It is hard to lead if you don’t move people. might help people,

I want to lead people, leading people is to help them get from point A to point B.

This blog is about me. It will talk about philosophy, improving yourself, tech stuff, and anything else that I care about.￼
